# Research Proposal
**_Caifan Du, PA 397C, Spring 2018_**

Software becomes increasingly significant research products as well as instruments for effective research. While it is very common for a researcher to run a statistical analysis using a piece of statistic software like SPSS or STATA; some academic disciplines, such as astronomy, physics, and bioinformatics, etc., rely heavily on specialized software to generate meaningful research results and outputs. Playing such a critical role, software should be acknowledged publicly in academic work as key components of the research process. This is the reason why there are many ongoing and emerging endeavors in academia seeking to improve the visibility of software in scholarly work. One important approach that these endeavors seek, is to promote the practice of software citation, like the traditional literature citation in scholarly publication. Citing software in academic publications, especially of those disciplinary areas with heavy use of software in research, has at least three advantages: 1) increase the reusability of software in research for maximizing its value as important research resource; 2) increase the reproducibility of research; 3) give credit to software development work as part of the academic work.
In order to promote the software citation practice, it is necessary for us to identify the existing practice and insufficiency. Then we can develop better policies and guidelines for standardizing and leading the practice. This is the goal of the proposed research. In the following part, I will describe the data source, research questions, research design, and validation methods, etc. 
## Data source
My data source is a human coded dataset of software mentioned in academic publications and the related information. These articles, published on journals along a 10-year time span (from 2001-2010), come from two disciplines: biology (natural science) and economics (social science). Trained human coders read the articles, identify the name of the software being mentioned, and whether other information about the mentioned software is given. This ancillary information includes software creator, version number, release date, etc. All the information is organized in 4 .csv tables. The preprocessing will include some cleaning and merge procedures for easier analysis.
## Research design and questions
I intend to do a longitudinal study first, identifying the general trend of software citation and the respective trends in the two disciplines. I also plan to compare and contrast these trends using data visualization techniques. My second step will be cross-sectional analysis: compare the existing citation practice between the two groups of citation data respectively from biology and economics. The questions sought to be answered through these analysis procedures are:
1. What is the general trend of software citation in the two disciplines from 2001 to 2010? What are the citation trends in economics and biology from 2001 to 2010, respectively?
2. Among all the articles, how many of them cite software? In the two separate disciplines, how many articles have software citation(s) in them?
3. Along with the cited software, what properties of the software have been mostly mentioned accordingly? Is there any difference between the two disciplines?
Finally, I expect these questions will help me understand whether software citation is an already established practice and what aspects of software tend to be mentioned in academic publications. These insights could inform software citation policy-makers when setting practice guidelines.
## Validation methods
I will give a detailed description of the dataset generation and preprocessing process. This will help evaluate the representativeness of the dataset and interpret the research results.

